{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Lucas Quotes\
\

\f1\b I was not planning on taking photos for this project, I didn\'92t get myself a Camera, but I got one camera back and it had quite a few sots left in it. 
\f0\b0 \
\
We worked with two fishermen, two women, two smaller children,  two teenagers and two farmers. \
\
It\'92s very difficult to get the cameras back. It takes a long time for the fotos to be taken and the project to develop and gain its momentum. After three months I had to go. The time was up and I could not find anywhere in Nicaragua to develop the cameras and I had to take the cameras with me back to the netherlands. \
\
\
So basically the idea of the experiement / photo-voice project more than anything was to explore how different groups of people in el astillero experienced the interactions between humans and nature. And how they would theorise those interactions. But more than anything how they would visualise those interactions using photography. \
\

\f1\b It was a baseball game, and I feel like its a brilliant representation of the relationship between humans and nature in El astillero. \

\f0\b0 \
1. The first photo is from behind the fence. I quite like this shot the pitcher has pitched the ball already and we see the batsman there ready to strike the ball.
\f1\b  We are in the Cancha, which is the central part of El Astillero
\f0\b0 ,
\f1\b  its the baseball field its the cow field its the pig field. Rubbish flows through there all the time but its a place where the whole village gathers when the baseball is on, to enjoy it and they clean it and then they have a good game of baseball 
\f0\b0 So these are a couple of shots from there. \
\
3. 
\f1\b Its quite an interesting part of the field because its where there is a lot of shadow because of this tree but you are technically still on the baseball field and lots of people gather there because it is shady. Its an interesting spot because that\'92s where the whole team gathers beneath the tree. That\'92s their bench. And that\'92s where the village gathers aswell
\f0\b0 .\
\

\f1\b 4. Here we see Joel Berroteran and he just got a triple or an infield homer he\'92s covered in dirt he had to slide to steal a base and that\'92s a good representation of the interaction between humans and nature. 
\f0\b0 \
\
6. Y
\f1\b ou see the whole crowd sitting around the baseball diamond and its quite an intense event in the heat of the day. But its where everyone gathers and really enjoys a game of baseball. This is where farmers and fishermen come together to play baseball and its a great experience to participate in these games as a fan and seeing the visiting team show up with their supporters. Its a pleasant day full of energy. 
\f0\b0 \
\

\f1\b 14. The moment of Joel and Yader celebrating a run! \

\f0\b0 \
16. Mauriel and Joel up close. You can see the dirt on his face after such a difficult game  Mauriel is an incredible surfer, as is Joel. But Joel stopped surfing and Mauriel stoped playing baseball. \
\

\f1\b 17. The final photo here, image 17 was perhaps more of an image I was expecting from the participants, not that we got many similar images to this. But you see a lot of erosion happening along the side of the road due to the heavy rains and a lot of that is full of plastic and the community moves around that space. On the edge watching the baseball and they sell food on the other side of the road, but there is just this gorge due to tropical rains during the rainy season and a lot of plastic that washes in from the community up hill. 
\f0\b0  \
\
}